qns1: List all the columns of the Salespeople table.

soln:Describe salespeople;

qns2:List all customers with a rating of 100.

soln: select cname from customer where rating=100; 

qns3: Find all records in the Customer table with NULL values in the city column. 

soln:select count(*) from customer where city=NULL; 

qns4:Find the largest order taken by each salesperson on each date. 

soln: select snum,odate,max(amt) from orders group by odate,snum;

qns5:Arrange the Orders table by descending customer number.

soln:select * from orders order by cnum desc; 

qns6:Find which salespeople currently have orders in the Orders table. 

soln:select sname from salespeople  where snum in(select snum from orders); 

qns7:List names of all customers matched with the salespeople serving them 

soln:select cname from customer  where snum in(select snum from salespeople); 

qns8:Find the names and numbers of all salespeople who had more than one customer.

soln:select sname,snum from salespeople  where snum in(select snum from customer group by snum having count(snum)>1 ); 

qns9:Count the orders of each of the salespeople and output the results in descend ing order. 

soln:select count(onum),snum from orders group by snum order by count(onum) desc ; 

qns10:List the Customer table if and only if one or more of the customers in the Customer table are located in San Jose. 

soln: select * from customer where city in(select city from customer  where city='San Jose'  group by city  having count(city)>1); 

qns11: Match salespeople to customers according to what city they lived in. 

soln:select sname,cname,s.city from salespeople s,customer c where s.city=c.city;

qns12:Find the largest order taken by each salesperson.

soln:select max(amt),snum from orders group by snum;

qns13:Find customers in San Jose who have a rating above 200. 

soln:select * from customer where rating>200; 

qns14:List the names and commissions of all salespeople in London. 

soln:select sname,comm from salespeople where city='London';

qns15:List all the orders of salesperson Motika from the Orders table. 

soln:select onum from orders where snum=(select snum from salespeople where snam e='Motika'); 

qns16:Find all customers with orders on October 3.

soln:select * from customers where snum in(select snum from orders where odate=' 03-OCT-96');

qns17:Give the sums of the amounts from the Orders table, grouped by date, elimina ting all those dates where the SUM was not at least 2000.00 above the MAX amount . 

soln:select odate,sum(amt) as total,max(amt) as maxamt from orders group by odate having(total-maxamt)>2000;


qns18:Select all orders that had amounts that were greater than at least one of th e orders from October 6. 

soln:select * from orders where amt>any(select amt from orders where odate='06-o ct-96'); 

qns19:Write a query that uses the EXISTS operator to extract all salespeople who h ave customers with a rating of 300.

soln: select * from salespeoples where exists(select * from customer c where c. snum=s.snum and c.rating=300);

qns20: Find all pairs of customer having the same rating. 

soln:select c1.cname,c2.cname from customer c1,customer c2 where c1.rating=c2.rating order by c1.rating;

qns21:Find all customer whose CNUM is 1000 above the SNUM of Serres. 

soln:select cnum,cname from customer where cnum >(select cnum+1000 from customer,salespeople where sname="Serres");

qns22:Give the salespeople commissions as percentages instead of decimal numbers. 

soln: select comm*100 from salespeople; 

qns23:Find the largest order taken by each salesperson on each date, eliminating those MAX orders which are less than $3000.00 in value.

soln: select snum,odate,max(amt) from orders group by odate,snum having max(amt)> 3000; 

qns24: List the largest orders for October 3, for each salesperson.

soln: select max(amt),snum,odate from orders group by (snum,odate) ,snum having o date='03-oct-96'; 

qns25:Find all customers located in cities where Serres (SNUM 1002) has customers. 

soln:select cname,city from customer where city in(select city from salespeople where snum=1002);

qns26:Select all customers with a rating above 200.00. 

soln:select * from customer where rating>200

qns27:Count the number of salespeople currently listing orders in the Orders table.

soln:select count(distinct snum) from orders o,salespeople s,customer c where c.snum=s.snum and o.cnum=c.cnum ; 

qns28:Write a query that produces all customers serviced by salespeople with a com mission above 12%. Output the customers name and the salespersons rate of commissi on. 

soln: select c.cname,s.comm from customer c join salespeople s on c.snum=s.snum and s.comm>.12;

qns29: Find salespeople who have multiple customers. 

soln: select snum,count(snum) from customer group by snum having count(snum)>1;

qns30:Find salespeople with customer located in their city.

soln: select s.sname,c.cname,s.city from salespeople s join customer c on s.city =c.city order by city; 

qns31: Find all salespeople whose name starts with P and the fourth character is l.

soln:select sname from salespeople where sname like 'p__l%'; 

qns32:Write a query that uses a subquery to obtain all orders for the customer nam ed Cisneros. Assume you do not know his customer number. 

soln:select onum from orders  where snum=(select snum from customer where cname='Cisneros');

qns33: Find the largest orders for Serres and Rifkin.

soln:select max(amt),s.sname from salespeople s,customer c,orders o where s.snum=c.snum and c.cnum=o.cnum and s.sname in("Serres","Rifkin")group by s.sname;

qns34:.Extract the Salespeople table in the following order : SNUM, SNAME, COMMISSIO N, CITY 

soln:select snum,sname,comm,city from salespeople;

qns35:Select all customers whose names fall in between A and G alphabetical range. 

soln: select cname from customers where cname between 'A' and 'G' order by cname asc;

qns36:Select all the possible combinations of customers that you can assign

soln:select c.cname,s.sname from customers c join salespeople s on c.snum=s.snum;

qns37:Select all orders that are greater than the average for October 4.

Soln: select amt from orders  where amt > (select avg(amt) from orders where odate in(select odate from orders group by odate having odate='04-OCT-96'));

qns38:Write a select command using a corelated subquery that selects the names and numbers of all customers with ratings equal to the maximum for their city.

soln: select cnum,cname,rating from customers where rating in(select max(rating) from customers group by city); 

qns39:Write a query that totals the orders for each day and places the results in d escending order

soln:select sum(amt) from orders group by odate order by sum(amt) desc;

qns40:Write a select command that produces the rating followed by the name of each customer in San Jose

soln:select rating,cname from customers where city in(select city from salespeop le1 where city='San Jose');

qns41:Find all orders with amounts smaller than any amount for a customer in San Jose

soln: select onum,amt from orders  where amt in(select onum from orders where amt >(select avg(amt) from orders));

qns42:Find all orders with above avg amt for their customers

soln:Select * from orders where amt >(select avg(amt) from orders o,customer c where o.cnum=c.cnum);

qns43:Write a query that selects the highest rating in each city.

soln:select city,max(rating) from customers group by city;

qns44:Write a query that calculates the amount of the salespersons commission on ea ch order by a customer with a rating above 100.00.

soln:select sname,comm*amt from salespeople1,orders where snum in(select snum f rom customers where rating > 100); 

qns45: Count the customers with ratings above San Jose average.

soln:select count(city) from customers where rating >(select avg(rating) from c ustomers where city='San Jose'); 

qns46:Write a query that produces all pairs of salespeople with themselves as wel l as duplicate rows with the order reversed. 

soln: select s.sname,d.sname from salespeople s,salespeople d order by s.sname desc;

qns47:Find all salespeople that are located in either Barcelona or London.

soln:select sname from salespeople1 where city='Barcelona' or city='London'; 

qns48:Find all salespeople with only one customer. 

soln:select snum,sname,count(c.cnum) as head_count from salespeople p,customer c where s.snum=c.snum having head_count=1;

qns49:Write a query that joins the Customer table to itself to find all pairs of customers served by a single salesperson. 

soln:select a.cname,b.cname,count(s.snum) from customer a,customer b,salespeople s where a.snum=s.snum and b.snum=s.snum group by s.snum having count(s.snum)=1;

qns50:Write a query that will give you all orders for more than $1000.00

soln: select onum from orders where amt>1000; 

qns51:Write a query that lists each order number followed by the name of the custom er who made that order.

soln:select orders.onum,customers.cname from customers,orders where customers.cn um=orders.cnum;

qns52:.Write 2 queries that select all salespeople (by name and number) who have cus tomers in their cities who they do not service, one using a join and one a corel ated subquery.

soln:select s.snum,s.sname from salespeople s where s.snum not in(select s.snum from customer c,salespeople s where s.snum=c.snum and s.city=c.city;

qns53:Write a query that selects all customers whose ratings are equal to or greater than ANY (in the
SQL sense) of Serres’?

soln:select * from customer where rating >= any(select rating from customer where cname='serres');

qns54:Write 2 queries that will produce all orders taken on October 3 or October 4

soln:Q1-->select onum from orders where odate='03-oct-96'
     Q2--> select onum from orders where odate='04-oct-96'; 

qns55: Write a query that produces all pairs of orders by a given customer. Name that customer and eliminate duplicates. 

soln: select c.cname,o.onum from customers c,orders o where c.cnum=o.cnum group b y c.cname,o.onum; 

qns56:Find only those customers whose ratings are higher than every customer in Rome.select 

soln:select cname from customers where rating >(select max(rating) from custome rs where city='Rome');

qns57:Write a query on the Customers table whose output will exclude all customers with a rating <=
100.00, unless they are located in Rome.

soln:select * from customer where city="Rome" and rating not in(select rating from customer where rating<=100);

qns58:Find all rows from the Customers table for which the salesperson number is 1001.

soln:select * from customer where snum=1001;

qns59:Find the total amount in Orders for each salesperson for whom this total is greater than the
amount of the largest order in the table.

soln:select sum(amt) as total from orders o,customer c,salespeople s where o.cnum=c.cnum and s.snum=c.snum group by s.snum having total >(select max(amt) from orders);

qns60:Write a query that selects all orders save those with zeroes or NULLs in the amount field.

soln:select * from orders where(amt is not null and amt>0);

qns61:Produce all combinations of salespeople and customer names such that the former precedes
the latter alphabetically, and the latter has a rating of less than 200.

soln:select * from salespeople ,customer where rating<200 order by sname;

qns 62:List all Salespeople’s names and the Commission they have earned.

soln:select sname,comm from salespeople;

qns 63:Write a query that produces the names and cities of all customers with the same rating as
Hoffman. Write the query using Hoffman’s CNUM rather than his rating, so that it would still be
usable if his rating changed.

soln:select cname,city from customer where rating in(select rating from customer where snum=(select snum from customer where cnum="hoffman"));

qns 64:Find all salespeople for whom there are customers that follow them in alphabetical order.

soln:select s.sname,s.snum from salespeople s,customer c where s.snum=c.snum order by s.sname;

qns 65:Write a query that produces the names and ratings of all customers of all who have above
average orders.

soln:select c.cname,c.rating from customer c,orders o where c.cnum=o.cnum and amt >(select avg(amt) from orders);

qns 66:Find the SUM of all purchases from the Orders table.

soln:select sum(amt) from orders;

qns67:Write a SELECT command that produces the order number, amount and date for all rows in
the order table.

soln:select onum,amt,odate from orders;

qns68:Count the number of nonNULL rating fields in the Customers table (including repeats).

soln:select rating from customer where rating is not null;

qns69:Write a query that gives the names of both the salesperson and the customer for each order
after the order number.

soln:select s.sname,c.cname from salespeople s,customer c,orders o where s.snum=c.snum and c.onum=o.onum group by c.cnum,o.onum;

qns70:List the commissions of all salespeople servicing customers in London.

soln:select comm from salespeople s,customer c where c.snum=s.snum and c.city="London";

qns71:Write a query using ANY or ALL that will find all salespeople who have no customers located in
their cit
soln:select * from salespeople where snum all(select s.snum from salespeople s,customer c where  s.city<>c,city);

qns72:Write a query using the EXISTS operator that selects all salespeople with customers located in
their cities who are not assigned to them.

soln:select * from salespeople s,custonmer c where s.city=c.city and exists(select * from salespeople s,customer c where s.snum<>c.snum)

									OR
select * from salespeople s,customer c where exists(select c.snum from salespeople s,customer c where s.city=c.city and s.snum<>c.snum);

qns73:Write a query that selects all customers serviced by Peel or Motika. (Hint : The SNUM field
relates the two tables to one another.)

soln:select cnum,cname from customer salespeople where sname in("peel","montika") group by sname;

qns74:Count the number of salespeople registering orders for each day. (If a salesperson has more
than one order on a given day, he or she should be counted only once.)

soln:

qns75:Find all orders attributed to salespeople in London.

soln:select * from orders o,salespeople s,customer c where o.cnum=c.cnum and s.snum=c.snum and s.city="London";

qns76:Find all orders by customers not located in the same cities as their salespeople.

soln:select onum from orders o,customer c,salespeople s where s.snum=c.snum and c.cnum=o.cnum and c.city<>s.city;

qns77:Find all salespeople who have customers with more than one current order.

soln:











 



